+++
title = "ELON MUSK'S TWITTER: A DISASTER IN THE MAKING?"
date = 2023-04-28T15:42:23.901Z
author = "Andrew Peacock"
draft = "false"
+++

Ever since Elon Musk purchased Twitter back in October 2022 for a staggering $44 billion, problem after problem has occurred with the platform. Will Twitter remain alive under his leadership?

The introduction of Twitter Blue was one of the first major and controversial changes Elon made to the social media platform. While I can understand that Elon needs to make Twitter a profitable company, I really don't think people should be able to buy verification checkmarks - it's a disaster in the making! I don't think the concept of a paid subscription to Twitter is a bad thing - it's no different from other platforms that offer similar subscriptions, such as Discord Nitro. The main problem with Twitter Blue is that you also get a verification checkmark. Ever since Twitter introduced verification back in June 2009, it has only been available to accounts that were notable in a particular field, active on Twitter, and able to provide proof of identity. Not just any old fool could be verified. Things are very different with Twitter these days - you can literally buy yourself a verification checkmark for $8. While I have nothing against the other features that Twitter Blue provides, I think the verification checkmark is a very bad idea - even more so since Twitter started removing legacy verified accounts' checkmarks. Twitter began removing the verification checkmarks from all accounts that were verified under the old criteria on April 20, 2023 - this has left some very big accounts, such as BBC News and Sky News, without a checkmark. Just days after legacy checkmarks were removed, the number of accounts being impersonated shot through the roof - that's only what I personally saw while using the platform. On Monday, 24th April, an account with the handle @DisneyJuniorUK received the golden checkmark, implying that they were an official business on Twitter. The catch was that they were actually impersonating the actual Disney Junior Twitter account, which has the handle [@DisneyJunior](https://twitter.com/DisneyJunior). Businesses can purchase a subscription to Verified Organizations, which costs £1,140.00 per month and is tax inclusive. Once approved, Twitter can give you a gold or grey checkmark to signify that you're an official business on Twitter. This fake Disney account was able to receive the golden checkmark despite having nothing to do with Disney. You only had to take one quick glance at the account's profile to see that it clearly had no connection to Disney and was fake - the content they were tweeting wasn't very child-friendly! This means that Twitter clearly did not review the profile before assigning them the golden checkmark, because anyone with half a brain would be able to tell that it was an impersonation account.

{{< tweet user="alexisconran" id="1650430909655445505" >}}

> Fake Disney account gets gold check.
>
> The verification process is now officially broken. Security has to work on trust. It’s quite clear the system is flawed and cannot be trusted. pic.twitter.com/rjbFrrUELO
> — Alexis Conran (@alexisconran) April 24, 2023


If you're interested in reading more about this specific case, I recommend checking out [this news article](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-65374723) that the BBC published on their website. Twitter has already made it hard enough to distinguish genuine accounts from fake ones with the removal of legacy checkmarks, and the fact that anyone can create an account and subscribe to Twitter Blue. However, giving a very clearly fake account the golden checkmark is unacceptable and severely damages the trust that was left in Twitter. If an account has a golden checkmark, you would assume that it is the real deal - Twitter even says they're verified because they are an official business on Twitter. But you cannot even believe that anymore. Another big impersonation case I am aware of is Martin Lewis. An account was set up in his name and subscribed to Twitter Blue. When Martin tried to get the scam account taken down, he was met with a poop emoji when emailing Twitter's Press Office. Having this as an automatic reply is outrageous - you would really think a big company like Twitter would be more professional. I do have to give credit to Twitter, though, because the account did not have the gold checkmark for too long before it was rightfully suspended from the platform.

{{< tweet user="martinslewis" id="1642803949324599297" >}}
{{< tweet user="martinslewis" id="1642895504865370113" >}}

While you can't prevent Twitter employees from giving gold checkmarks out to accounts that are impersonating others, scam accounts wouldn't be on the rise if it weren't so easy to get a verification checkmark. While new accounts do have to wait 30 days before they are allowed to subscribe to Twitter Blue, this isn't going to stop the scammers because they'll just create a bunch of accounts and wait the 30 days. I think it would have been a better idea to leave verification the way it was and perhaps have a separate icon next to a user's profile to indicate that they are subscribed to Twitter Blue. Using the verification checkmark for an entirely different purpose only confuses people and in my eyes, makes it easier for people to be scammed while using the social media platform. For years, we've been taught to trust accounts that are verified and have the checkmark, and the same goes for other social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram. But if you can't trust the people who are dishing out the checkmarks, then who exactly can you trust? Elon has also recently "donated" Twitter Blue subscriptions to high-profile accounts, such as Stephen King. I think if Elon really has to pay for high-profile accounts to have verification, then he is just defeating the entire objective of Twitter Blue. I feel like this alone proves how much of a disaster it was to remove legacy verification. I also feel like Elon deep down knows this, which is the reason he is supposedly paying out of his own pocket to keep blue ticks on popular Twitter accounts. Verification checkmarks were also "donated" to dead users.

Another big issue I have with Twitter is that they have almost eliminated free access to their API, making the entire thing only accessible if you pay. I think this was a really bad move, so it wasn't too much of a surprise when Elon backtracked on most of these changes just days before they were due to be rolled out.

{{< tweet user="twitterdev" id="1621026986784337922" >}}

While I can understand the need for a paid version of the API, I don't think eliminating the free tier entirely is the solution. I believe they should keep a free tier but significantly limit it so that it's almost impossible to use in a production environment without exceeding the limits. This would give developers and those experimenting with the API a chance to try it out, sort of like a free trial. Having a paywall on those simply trying something out will discourage potential developers, resulting in fewer people using the Twitter API. Personally, I had some plans for things I wanted to do with the Twitter API. I don't mind paying for API requests once everything is in production, but just for testing and learning how to use the API, I don't want to pay. The current cheapest plan is $100 per month, which I think is a reasonable price for the limits they put on usage. However, for the basic sort of things I had in mind, it would be significantly overkill. I believe they need to have even more basic and cheaper plans if they want to attract developers to the API. Twitter now has a free plan available for the API since they backtracked on the decision to remove it, advertised as "For write-only use cases and testing the Twitter API." However, you don't have access to read any data, and the plan overall appears to be quite limited. For testing purposes, as long as you don't need to read anything, it should be fine. But the sudden jump from free to $100 per month is highly excessive, and Twitter should re-think this and come up with some cheaper and more basic plans than their current so-called 'basic' plan.

I saw the below Tweet from Thomas Frank:

{{< tweet user="tomfrankly" id="1621173448998551552" >}}

I really like Thomas’ idea and think adding some kind of basic API access as a perk to Twitter Blue could be a good idea. It would certainly make me consider subscribing to Twitter Blue. I use Twitter on a daily basis and consider myself a highly active user - I would certainly make good use of the current Blue perks, such as longer tweets and the edit button. I did actually subscribe to Twitter Blue back in early November last year to see what it was like, and during that time, I just didn't use the edit button. It's something we've been begging Twitter to add for many years, but I just didn't find myself needing to use it at all. That could be because I always double-check any of my Tweets to make sure they're correct, whereas with an edit button, it's possible to be a tiny bit more careless because you know you can correct the mistake without having to delete and start again. I'm not sure how I feel about putting something as basic as an edit button behind a paywall, though. No other platforms that I'm aware of do this, and being able to edit something you post feels like a basic right. The idea of paying to edit your own content just feels wrong - I think it should be free. Overall, I don't think Twitter Blue was good value for money back in November, and I still feel this way in April 2023. I've seen quite a few people share similar opinions after recently checking out Twitter Blue.

While I think that Elon and his team have made some very bad decisions in recent months, there have been some positive changes to Twitter that I very much welcome. One of the most recent additions is the 'For You' tab. I've seen some mixed opinions regarding this, and I wasn't a huge fan when it first came out, but I do really like it now. I think it's really nice to see accounts that you don't follow in your feed. I've personally found lots of new and interesting accounts while using the 'For You' tab, and I think it's a great idea, as long as Twitter continues to allow users to switch between the two different tabs - 'For You' and 'Following'. Another feature I really like is the introduction of views on Tweets. I think this is a really nice addition, and I find it very interesting to see how many views other people's Tweets get. I also like the concept of the multicoloured verification system, where government accounts have a grey checkmark and companies/organizations have gold. The ability to easily distinguish between why an account is verified without having to click on the checkmark is a great idea. However, I'm not a fan of the 'Verified Organizations' pricing - currently £1,140.00 per month and an extra £60 per additional handle you'd like to affiliate with your company. I feel like the pricing is a little excessive for what you're getting, but I do like the concept of it. I still feel like companies shouldn't have to pay for verification though. I know £1,140.00 isn't a lot of money for some really big companies like Microsoft and Google, but it's the principle that bothers me. Many companies currently have a dilemma to solve: pay for the verification or risk their customers or visitors getting scammed by a fake account. 

If Twitter were not such a popular platform, I don't think I would continue using it. While there are some great alternatives out there, such as Mastodon and Bluesky, which I am currently on the waiting list for, the main issue is that many of the people I follow on Twitter do not have accounts on these platforms. This means I am somewhat compelled to stay on Twitter if I want to keep up with their latest posts. If more popular accounts existed on these Twitter alternatives, I think I would most likely stop using Twitter altogether. I am somewhat torn on my opinion of Twitter, and it will be interesting to see how the platform continues to evolve in the coming months and years.