+++
title = "EVRI-WHERE BUT HERE! MY DELIVERY DILEMMA WITH EVRI"
date = 1695924517
author = "Andrew Peacock"
draft = "false"
+++

On Thursday, 7th, September, I ordered some cushions online. On Friday morning, I received tracking information. To my horror, it would be delivered by Evri, formally known as Hermes. To put it nicely, I haven't had many good experiences with this delivery firm. Nonetheless, I was hoping for a speedy and pain-free delivery. It was far from it...

Ever since I was delivered the initial tracking number via email by Evri, I didn't hear anything from them until Sunday morning when they claimed to have received my package and were processing it at their parcel hub. At 11:57am on Monday, I received an email informing me that my parcel was out for delivery, "and we're delivering it today between 16:30 - 18:30." The given timeframe quickly comes and goes, yet still nothing. The last time I had a delivery from Evri, they also missed the timescale given, so I wasn't too surprised. I heard something from them at 8:00pm when I had an email: "(Name of driver) has had to reschedule your delivery. We're still delivering your parcel today." Evri restored my hope, thinking that it should still come today. At 8:21pm, a van pulled into the driveway, and it was Evri! The only problem is, they never delivered my parcel. My Mum answered the door and was handed a package for another resident at the address, my Dad. The driver said, "there you go" and walked off. Quite rude if you ask me. I was trying to understand why the package was so small; it wasn't my cushions. That was when I realised it wasn't my package. I quickly refreshed the tracking (I already had the page up), and to my horror, it said:

> Your courier has had an issue with getting to the delivery address. 
> If you have any delivery instructions you think might help, please get in touch

It's worth noting that unlike the other times there was an update with my package, they never emailed me about this. The only way I would have known is if I manually checked on the tracking number. I got up quickly and ran outside, but I missed the driver by seconds. I am furious about this. In my opinion, the driver didn't realise that he had multiple packages for different people at the same address. After delivering the first one, he couldn't be bothered to walk a few steps from the driveway back to the house to deliver my cushions, and instead lied and pretended there was some issue getting to my address despite being right outside and having just given a package to us! The only problem the driver had getting to my address was laziness!

As the driver was gone, I could only do one thing: raise a complaint online with Evri. Since it was so late in the evening, I couldn't call them and believe me, I would've loved to speak to an advisor about this. I was left with the option of live chat, but even then, it was a bot and wouldn't let me speak to a human directly then and there. I can only assume their live chat support agents don't work this late. I had to leave them a message via their Digital Assistant instead.

At 11:06am on Tuesday, 12th September, I received an email telling me my parcel would be delivered "today between 14:30 - 16:30". Like yesterday, that time quickly came and went, and there was no sign of my cushions! At 16:51, I had an email from Evri. Like before: "(Name of driver) has had to reschedule your delivery." A few minutes later, at 16:55, the driver pulled up and FINALLY delivered my cushions! He was quizzed at the door as to what happened with the delivery yesterday, and his response was: "I couldn't find it in the van".

I struggle to believe this. Firstly, when the driver pulled up yesterday, he was straight out within a second of stopping the van and delivered my Dad's parcel. After stopping, there was no attempt to look for any package in the van; he came straight to the door and didn't open the back. However, after walking back to the van, he stumbled around for a mere 10 seconds before heading back to his seat and driving away. Because of this, yes, it is possible that he was telling the truth when he said he couldn't find the parcel in the van. Either because he didn't look hard enough, or it genuinely wasn't there. Correct me if I'm wrong, but to the best of my knowledge, he would've had to scan the package in the first place to leave his "issue with getting to the delivery address" message on the parcel's tracking. My knowledge of this subject is limited, so the driver could have submitted something on his phone instead without the need to scan it. If that's the case, there would be no concrete proof that he was lying about not having the package. But if it is true that the parcel would've needed to be scanned, then it would be evident that he had my cushions in the van the entire time and was lying. Let's give him the benefit of the doubt for a moment and say he was telling the truth. Why did he drive away and not say anything to me? If I were in this situation, I would've knocked on the customer's door again to let them know what was happening, even more so when you're going to lie about the parcel's tracking. I don't know what options he would've had to select from, but there should've been an option to choose from that would've better suited the situation. If Evri does not have a more appropriate alternative, one must be added. In this situation, it added mass confusion to anyone wanting to check the parcel's tracking. What it said was simply untrue. If the package was not in his van and was actually lost, it would look like it was last seen inside his van, making it confusing to work out where the missing package is.

As you may remember, I submitted a formal complaint to Evri straight after the events on Monday evening. I was already anticipating, at most, a canned response. However, I still have not heard anything back as of today (Thursday, 28th September 2023). I contacted them immediately, and 17 days later, they still have yet to respond. To say I am severely disappointed doesn't even cut it. Judging other blog posts about Evri, it's safe to say they don't have great customer service. But I expected them to respond at the very least, even if they would try to fob me off with a canned response.

Before writing the conclusion to this post, I revisited Evri's website to attempt to contact someone for an update. Still, the customer service bot is utterly useless and refuses to interact with me further once I confirm my parcel was delivered. The refusal to continue the conversation makes it difficult for customers to seek help with packages marked as delivered. The only options are 'See proof of delivery' and 'Ok, thanks.' In my case, I am not interested in viewing proof of delivery, so my only option is to press the okay button. This button closes the session and asks for feedback on the chat, which, again, is not what I want to do, giving me no choice other than to give up. And at this point, I suspect this is what they wanted all along. I'm sure many people would forget that they submitted a complaint or support request in the first place, especially after waiting so long. And the difficulties I faced in trying to chase it up only made matters worse. With this experience in mind, I cannot recommend using Evri. I wouldn't wish this upon my worst enemies. I recommend using any other delivery firm, and you will have a better experience. An incident similar to this happened with Yodel. Still, the big difference here is that Yodel made it very easy for me to get into contact with a human. They took my concerns seriously and acted upon them to make things right, something I can't say about Evri.